[Music]
have you ever been
at a dinner party or a picnic
and someone let's say it's an uncle or
cousin of yours
says something really crass and
offensive
that implicitly or explicitly shows
that they don't know the difference
between filipinos and mexicans
or like even that they believe filipinos
and mexicans
come from the same country
and it's not racist in the sense of
actively advancing a racist hypothesis
it's just ignorant inoffensive in a way
that leaves you stunned and disoriented
and not knowing what to say back to them
but it's just your uncle or it's just
your cousin
and it's just a dinner party or it's
just
a garden party a barbecue and you're
standing and what
what are you supposed to do
what if it's not your uncle what if it's
the news reader
for cbs news what if it's someone being
interviewed
as a politician on abc news
and then what if it's someone who's in
between these two extremes
it's not a dedicated public figure
it's also not a private communication
what if it's a youtuber
who's embarrassingly ignorant in this
way
about precisely the topics that he or
she
chooses to deliver monologues about
on youtube all right what everyone would
say
about your racist uncle or you're not
racist uncle
would be oh oh oh oh well he means well
he has good intentions he didn't he
didn't mean to insult the people of
mexico or the people of the philippines
yeah
who who's responsible for his ignorance
if not him you know now
i'm not saying we should we should you
know
throw the guy in prison but like the
point is are we gonna hold this guy
accountable
just to the extent of saying look
there's some basic facts about geography
and politics
you want to be a prize though before you
go mouthing off about mexicans and
filipinos okay
you know just put him in check in that
way and really let him know this
this is serious and if it's not serious
to you guess what it's serious to tens
of millions of people or hundreds of
millions of people
depending on how you do the math you
know um
[Music]
the outrageous stupidity
and ignorance of my fellow youtuber
swayze
unnatural vegan i know a lot of people
are gonna go and say well she has
good intentions and i've had emails sent
to me by her
fans and viewers many many times above
that and you know
there is a sense in both scenarios in
which i can
recognize those good intentions but
nevertheless i can also hold this person
responsible for their ignorance i can
say look it's nobody's fault
but yours that you chose to come on the
mic
without even looking up the dictionary
definition
of these terms without even reading a
wikipedia article
and in swayze's case if you don't know
her youtube channel a natural vegan has
a long history
of reproaching insulting and denouncing
other youtubers for failing
to look things up in the dictionary and
very often the failure
is something she's used in a kind of
intellectually dishonest way where
really what she means is you're not
using the word the way
i want you to use it and really the
other youtuber was using in a way that
meets the dictionary definition but
leaving those details aside i have heard
her many times or approached people do
you remember this when she said oh well
maybe you look that up in a normal
dictionary but you didn't look it up in
say
an encyclopedia of philosophy where you
would have found a better definition
it was like this okay so these are the
standards she holds
others to and they are not standards she
even tries to live up to
herself so a lot of you will have
noticed i checked the comment section a
lot of you noticed
that she grossly misunderstood the
meaning of the term
neoliberal and neoliberalism right at
the start of the video and a quick
google search
you know you can do a lot of reading to
really get to the bottom of the meaning
of neoliberalism how it's taken on
the meaning it now has in politics and
in our culture but
fundamentally she was completely wrong
about the meaning of that term i was
just going back and looking at the first
videos
i ever did criticizing mgtow
so this is mgtow pronounced mgtow of
course
um in case in case you haven't guessed
i'm against it but mgtow is an internet
phenomenon
and the earliest videos i really took
some time to say on camera look i want
you to know
i actually did a bunch of research for
you know i didn't just look up the
meaning of the term
i went and i contrasted different
people's definitions and how it's used
in this reddit group
and you know why it's become popular in
this way
i also have to do research i also have
to
make sure i'm using words in a way
that's meaningful to my audience
and you know we're not just
in the backyard having a barbecue we're
not just having a dinner
party there is a sense in which all of
us have a higher level of responsibility
and if anyone would know that it would
be swayze it would be a natural vegan
because she's lectured assault about
that innumerable times i mean even think
of how she says
she won't have her own children on
camera now she thinks i
shouldn't have my children on camera i
have a daughter you know like somehow
it's immoral for me to show footage of
myself on vacation that oh really
you can listen to her explanation which
i do not find convincing at all
she wants me to be setting an example in
a very peculiar sense in which i don't
want to be setting an example
actually um you know there's this old
canard
where people say oh well um
[Music]
you know it's like claiming playing a
violent video game
normalizes violence the playing violent
video games will make you
more violent
we have a lot of video games about
world war ii
have you ever seen a single one giving a
sympathetic
portrayal of adolf hitler of the nazi
side
actually we all know what video games
normalize
we all know the impact it has on our
culture right
actually all video games are censored to
an unbelievable extent
even the most violent ones because we
know this
right we don't think video games are
merely
acting out harmless fantasies if we did
all those wars depicted in video games
but most obviously and most odiously
world war ii would if not have equal
numbers of games
depicting what's that they'd have
innumerable really perverse
reinterpretations of those wars and that
history right no no
no no no no no no we're all terrified of
the idea that rednecks in their
basements
playing these video games will take on
certain ideas
shall we say about the history of world
war ii it's actually very
tightly controlled the narrative right
and what we're allowed to say here on
youtube is much more tightly controlled
than you dear viewer could possibly
imagine
i spent the last five days
writing email back and forth to the
censorship committee
here at youtube because i uploaded a
video
in which i was reflecting on what
anti-semitism means
to me as someone born jewish
in the year 2021 and my video
and my whole channel
was blacklisted for hate speech
for racism for anti-semitism okay
i had to write a whole series of letters
back and forth
and of course eventually they caved and
then i had to write the further letters
back saying hey
i didn't get an apology the little the
little red
circle next to the video turned green
you guys didn't take the time to to say
sorry you think the times the story that
you categorized my video which i'm
criticizing other people for being
anti-semitic
talking about the impact of
anti-semitism in my life and and you
categorize that
as if i were guilty of hate speech and
racism they also said that the video
depicted violence which it didn't
violence and gore they you you did that
to me
in error and okay we are so
tightly censored here on youtube that i
uploaded a video
complaining that people in france
don't wash their hands enough and that
was taken down it was censored about
three times
and with the final round of censorship
it was actually removed from public view
all right because that was racist
against the french
the standards we're going to live up to
as broadcasters
as journalists and leaders of public
opinion as slacktivists as activists as
radio talk show personalities in the
post-radio
universe of the 21st century you know
they're ultimately the standards we
choose for ourselves okay
you know who i responded to the latest
round of censorship that youtube has put
on me
i'm more committed than ever to making
videos pointing the finger at neo-nazis
i feel like i've got a double down and
i've got a quadruple down and i've got
to be the one channel that's willing to
get blacklisted
and willing to get banned by making one
video after another that has neo-nazi in
the [ __ ] title
okay it really matters in the year 2021
this is
this is january of 2021. do you want to
pretend
that neo-nazism is a minor or marginal
issue in american politics
in january of 2021 do you think that's
something that's just fine for youtube
just snuff
out of public discourse and debate
it takes guts all right and i can tell
you from direct experience
not all of them are this trivial but i
have experience again and again with
making these kinds of videos sometimes
where i'm intentionally pushing the
limits
of what's acceptable on youtube for a
good reason because i'm dealing with
you know a political issue that really
matters to me and sometimes where i'm
just talking about how it feels to be
jewish and deal with anti-semitism
i don't think i'm pushing limits at all
and i get punished anyway sometimes it's
unexpected sometimes it's expected right
but i'm willing to make that commitment
i'm willing to take those
risks all right
standards that matter ultimately are the
standards we are going to hold
ourselves to all right and what a
natural vegan is showing you
again and again is that the the
standards she holds
others to are standards that she does
not entertain
for herself she doesn't care about for
herself
now right after this snafu
with the meaning of the word
neoliberalism what she runs into is a
very obvious logical fallacy
and she's the queen of complaining that
everyone else is guilty of logical
fallacies but
doesn't look in the mirror isn't
interested in evaluating something she
presents us with a logical fallacy
that you can't complain that something
is bad and wrong and evil unless you
have something better
to replace it with that that is
a fallacy so i'm not in a position to
say
this tire factory is polluting the river
unless i know a chemical formula i know
a method of making tires
that can be that could happen without
pluto really does that make sense to you
huh she claims that it is only because
veganism can
scientifically replicate nutrients like
b12
and provide you with a nutrition
complete diet to replace uh medium
it is only on that basis it's only the
basis of one thing
supplanting replacing substituting for
another
that morally or logically we can point
out we can challenge we complain about a
great evil
and of course her point is to say that
she thinks the communists or
even more broadly the anti-capitalists
don't have a leg to stand on
because they can't present a system
that's better
than the one they're criticizing how
dare you swayze
how dare you when you're talking about
slaves in the history of haiti
almost every single one of whom would
have been
illiterate and incredibly few would have
been
able to read and if they could read
probably the only book they'd ever read
would have been a christian
book of prayers hymns songs
sung at church
there were slaves in haiti who said you
know what
this system is bad and evil
and wrong they didn't have they didn't
have a better idea of what to replace it
with
all right they could see the problem and
they were willing
to fight and die without knowing
the solution okay history is made
not by people who know the answers
to problems it's made by people
who have the level of commitment to
confront those problems
in the absence of any possible known
solution
history is made by the people who are
willing to fight
to kill and sometimes to die
okay progress is not achieved through
this kind of formula
that swayze presents you with of having
an equation
where like oh well here's cheese and
here's vegan fake cheese to replace it
here's here's where meat eaters get b12
here's the replacement
oh well here's how capitalism works
here's how a better system than
capitalism can
fill out the equation no no no
progress is not made through the
substitution
of one thing that's known
for another thing that is equally well
established proven
and already known progress is made
through pressing into the unknown we
start to make progress
when we're thinking about the
unthinkable when we're challenging
ourselves to do things
that seem impossible
all right the leader of the uh slave
rebellion in haiti the successful
slave rebellion he didn't just beat the
slave owners
he beat the french he beat napoleon's
best army
he wasn't oppressed too song over tear
lived in wealth and splendor he had a
very comfortable life
he had been a slave about 20 years
earlier he had a very privileged
position
as a slave actually had about the best
job he could get as a slave he got along
well with his master that particular man
was his master was apparently very
humane and
interesting fellow who had a
relationship with him and liberated him
after a certain number of years of
service
he owned land he had employees he had
farms he was an entrepreneur he was a
businessman
if anything he had everything to gain
by preserving the status quo by keeping
the establishment
slave owning french colonial
establishment intact
in haiti he was one of the winners of
the system
and he gambled it all he bet it all
for a type of freedom that he and his
people
didn't know would work
it was something unthinkable
it was something none of them
could even fully imagine